# Bike-Sharing-dataset-Machine-Learning

This question is based on the Bike Sharing dataset taken from the UCI Machine Learning
Repository (originally from http://capitalbikeshare.com/system-data) –
http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Bike+Sharing+Dataset.
The original source of the dataset is attributed to:
Fanaee-T, H., Gama, J., “Event Labeling Combining Ensemble Detectors and
Background Knowledge”, Progress in Artificial Intelligence, 2013, pp. 1-15, Springer
Berlin Heidelberg.

### Data 

The dataset is concerned with the domain of bike sharing systems. Bike sharing systems are
new generation of traditional bike rentals where whole process from membership, rental and
return back has become automatic. Through these systems, user is able to easily rent a bike
from a particular position and return back at another position. Currently, there are about over
500 bike-sharing programs around the world which is composed of over 500 thousands
bicycles. Today, there exists great interest in these systems due to their important role in
traffic, environmental and health issues.
Apart from interesting real world applications of bike sharing systems, the characteristics of
data being generated by these systems make them attractive for research. Opposed to other
transport services such as bus or subway, the duration of travel, departure and arrival position
is explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns bike sharing system into a virtual
sensor network that can be used for sensing mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that
most of important events in the city could be detected via monitoring these data.
The dataset comes in two versions. In the first version, the rental bikes records are organized
by day. In the second version, the rental bikes records are organized by hour of day. In
general, you may think of one record in the first version for a particular day as being divided
into 24 records in the second version, i.e., one for each hour of day. However, if a particular
hour does not have a single bike being rented out; it will be excluded from the dataset. In
other words, the first version of the dataset contains 731 observations but the second version
of the dataset contains less than 731 x 24 = 17,544 observations. In fact, the second version of
the dataset only has 17,379 observations. It is deemed that there is no missing data. This
assignment is based on the second version of the dataset.
The second version of the dataset consists of 17 variables:
1. Instant – record index
2. dteday – date
3. season – season (1: springer, 2: summer, 3: fall, 4: winter)
4. yr – year (0: 2011, 1: 2012)
5. mnth – month (1 to 12)
6. hr – hour (0 to 23)
7. holiday – weather day is holiday or not
8. weekday – day of the week
9. workingday – if day is neither weekend nor holiday is 1, otherwise is 0.
10. weathersit –
• 1: Clear, Few clouds, Partly cloudy, Partly cloudy
• 2: Mist + Cloudy, Mist + Broken clouds, Mist + Few clouds, Mist
